 

 

DECISION BY DELEGATE OF COUNCIL 

SUBMISSION BY Lawrence Roache 
SITE: 
Address of Site: 
Real Property Description: 
Area of Site: 
Zone: 
Name of Ward: 
APPLICATION: 
Aspects of Development: 
Description of Proposal: 
Applicant: 

12 WILTON TCE YERONGA QLD 4104 
L5 RP.59813 
607 m2  
LOW MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (2 OR 3 STOREY MIX) ZONE 
Tennyson 

DA - SPA - Material Change of Use – Development Permit   
Multiple Dwellings   
Ken and Susan Poggioli 
c/- Hillocc Pty Ltd 
PO Box 886 
COORPAROO  QLD 4151 
A003974498 
01 October 2014 
10 October 2014 

Application Reference: 
Lodgement Date: 
Properly Made Date: 
DECISION on development application 
Having considered the application detailed above, I refuse this application based on the following 
grounds: 
1. 

The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 6.2.1.2. (2)(c) of the purpose of the 
Low  Medium  Density  Residential  Code  as  the  3  storey  multiple  dwelling  does  not  offer  a 
sensitive transition to the next door low set dwelling located to the south of the subject site. It 
is considered that the three storey development is too close to the adjacent low set dwelling 
to  the  south,  particularly  since  the  Acceptable  Solutions  for  the  2  to  3  storey  zone  restrict 
development to 9.5m or 2 storeys where adjacent to an existing dwelling. The relevant tables 
further indicate that the maximum building height in this instance is 2 storeys and 9.5m. 
The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 6.2.1.2. (4)(c) of the purpose of the 
Low  Medium  Density  Residential  Code  as  the  three  storey  scale  of  the  proposed 
development results in a building form and bulk that does not locate potential residents within 
a  reasonable  walking  distance  to  regular  public  transport,  centres  and  shops.  The 
approximate 550m distance to the pedestrian entry to the nearest railway station (measured 
in  accordance  with  the  definitions  of  City  Plan  2014)  is  well  in  excess  of  the  relevant 
Acceptable Solution. 
The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 6.2.1.2. (4)(j) of the purpose of the 
Low Medium Density Residential Code as  
 The  three  storey  development  is  considered  to  have  a  detrimental  effect  on  the  level  of 
comfort,  quiet  and  privacy  and  will  diminish  the  amenity  of  the  adjoining  residential 
dwelling.  

2. 

3. 

 The  proposed  development  does  not  provide  adequate  separation  on  the  southern 
boundary  and  does  not  provide  adequate  landscaping  along  most  of  the  common 
southern boundary which would provide for screening.  

4. 

The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 6.2.1.2. (7)(a), the 2 or 3 storey mix 
zone  precinct  overall  outcomes  of  the  Low  Medium  Density  Residential  Code  as  the 

 

 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

proposed  development  exceeds  two  storeys  and  is  not  within  easy  walking  distance  of  a 
public transport node.   
The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 9.3.14.2 (2)(d) of the purpose of the 
Multiple  Dwelling  Code  as  the  proposal  is  considered  to  have  a  negative  impact  on  the 
residential amenity of the adjoining site.  
The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 9.3.14.2 (2)(e) of the purpose of the 
Multiple Dwelling Code as the scale of the proposed development results in a building form 
and  bulk  that  does  not  integrate  with  the  existing  and  intended  neighbourhood  structure, 
which is predominantly low set and high set detached housing with existing two storey Multi 
Unit Dwelling developments.   
The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 9.3.14.2 (2)(h) of the purpose of the 
Multiple Dwelling Code as the three storey development is not appropriate to the strategic 
and local context and community expectations. It is noted that the Acceptable Outcomes of 
the City Plan limit development in this instance to two storeys. 
The proposal has failed to demonstrate compliance with 9.3.14.2 (2)(l) of the purpose of the 
Multiple Dwelling Code as the proposal at three storeys will create significant overshadowing 
impacts on the adjoining property to the south.  

The proposal has failed to meet the following performance outcomes of the Multiple Dwelling Code 
as follows: 
1. 

The proposed development fails to meet Performance Solution P05 as the proposal is for a 
three  storey  development  in  a  zone  precinct  for  two  storeys  and  is  not  consistent  or 
expected.  The  local  area  is  predominately  low  set  detached  housing,  high  set  detached 
housing and some two storey units.  
The proposed development fails to meet Performance Solution P06 as the proposed building 
height of three storeys is not consistent with low set and high set housing in the streetscape. 
The site is approximately 550m from the Yeronga railway station and is not considered to be 
in close proximity to this public transport service.  
The  proposed  development  fails  to  meet  Performance  Solution  P08  as  the  separation 
between the three storey proposal and the adjoining low set dwelling to the south is 3.4m, 
which is not considered to provide an appropriate separation and sensitive transition to the 
adjoining development. 

2. 

3. 

On balance, the built form outcomes combined with community objections to the proposal present 
significant  concerns  and  as  such  sufficient  grounds  have  not  been  presented  to  support  the 
proposal. 
 
And direct that:  

1.  The applicant be advised of the decision 
2.  No Infrastructure Charges Notice be given 
3.  The local Ward Councillor be advised of the decision 
4.  The submitters be advised of the decision at the expiration of the applicant’s appeal period 

Dated 14 July 2015 
 
 
 
 
Anne Freeman 
Principal Urban Planner 
Development Assessment Planning Services South 
As DELEGATE of Council 

 

